Hi and welcome back to part two of our single dispatch generic functions.
So in the last video we ended with this function here H-2 Himalayas that takes in an argument and then
based on the type of the argument it looks up in this hand-coded registry dictionary which function
it should actually apply to that argument that got passed in.
There was a couple of errors in there.
I had h tim l ENT for float and decimal should have been really touched him all real but it doesn't
really matter because we're going to get rid of all this.
The problem is that of course we have this hard coded registry and we don't want to hand-coded we want
to write this in a way that's more general so that we can apply the same principle to any kind of dispatch
that we want a single argument.
Dispatcher which is what this implies function does right now.
So let's go ahead and kind of take this idea and let me copy paste it.
Actually let's just delete this and this and let's just write below.
So the way I want to do this is going to look a little silly at first.
I'm going to create a decorator that does something a little odd.
But bear with me and I'll explain why after we've done the code.
I'll explain what it actually does and that will be the starting point for our dispatcher.
So let's go ahead and write it.
Now I'm writing a decorator so it's not.
Tim allys this is now a more general kind of decorator so I'm going to call it single dispatch.
That's what it is we're trying to create a single dispatch function essentially.
And we're going to use that using a decorator.
So it's a decorator.
The argument the first argument is the the fourth and only argument is the function.
So this is not a parameterized decorator's just a regular decorator.
And we're going to create a registry dictionary inside the single dispatch function.
And now this is kind of the weird part.
What am I going to do when I write.
What is the inner function that closure right.
That we have when we write decorator's.
What is that going to do.
Well it's going to take in an argument.
Remember we're writing a single dispatch so single argument.
So I'm assuming here that whatever function we're decorating whatever this function is here only requires
one argument.
Right.
We could write it so it can take multiple arguments but we would only do the dispatch on the first argument
anyway.
So to keep it simple I'm going to make the assumption that we're only using single argument functions.
So let's go ahead and write that in a function.
And of course it's a closure so it's a decorator so we're going to return in an hour after we're done
with it.
And in a normally what does it do.
It does some work and then it executes the function and applies it to the argument and then returns
the value.
Right so then we can call this in a function as if we are called the decorated function.
So we're going to do something very similar here except that I'm not going to call efen directly.
OK this is what we would normally do in a decorated this wouldn't be there we'd have something in here
like me at all.
You print something out or do something or other and then evaluate the function with the argument.
This function with this argument or argument if we have more than one and then return that value here.
I'm not going to use effen directly and this is kind of the silly thing I'm going to add to the registry
under the object key because this is not my generic thing.
So if I pass in an object for this function it's going to take it and it's going to assign it to it's
going to sign FLN the function to the object key in the registry dictionary.
So you can think of this as the default function we were writing like HD MLS scape for example.
OK so now I have that.
And what do I want to do.
Well I want to look up the function in the registry.
So basically I'm going to say return registry object.
Right.
I'm going to look up the the function by using the object key in the registry and then I'm going to
apply it to the argument.
OK.
So this is my decorator which is kind of weird right because all I'm doing is just running F-in on the
argument.
So if I go ahead and say single dispatch
and I do def h t implies I'm going to call it a Himalayans takes some arguments single argument a.
And what is it going to do it's going to return escape.
Are you going to string a FI A and then escape.
OK.
So h tim allies is now this in a function.
So I can call it I can say HFM allies let's say.
One is less than 100.
And of course we get the escaped version of that string.
Why.
Well when we called him allies we actually called in her it basically said hey go look up whatever the
function is that's in the registry.
We have a key of object look that up.
Well that was the Tim allies our original team allies function right.
They go past Fehn.
So it looks up that function and applies it to the argument and then returns the value to exactly what
it did there.
So it's kind of weird.
Why am I doing that.
Well because now what I want to do is something a little bit different.
Let's expand on this a little bit.
Let's go ahead.
I'll copy paste it and I'm going to.
And let's say another entry here.
I'm going to say registry Ent. is equal to.
And here I'm going to use a lambda.
So my I'm going to define the function right in kid.
And I'm going to say lambda.
And what do I want.
I'm going to go back to what we had for the INT.
Right.
This is how we were decorating it.
Ah decoration.
That's how we're handling integers.
So let me go ahead here and just paste this right in here.
So Lamda a try it's going to take some parameter a and it's going to do this to basically do the string
representation in the middle of our integers.
And I could maybe even say registry.
Maybe we'll do a string.
What do we want to do with a string.
Well we just want to escape the string but then we have some other stuff too.
So let's go back and see what else we had for the string.
We wanted to replace remember the carriage returns with B tags.
So let's go ahead and put that in as well.
So again I'm just going to use a lambda here to pass and it uses s h to Melas Scates it and then replaces
it.
OK.
So we have that.
I'm not even going to use h him escape.
I'm going to use escape directly.
We already have a string.
OK.
And what I'm going to do now.
So got multiple objects in my registry with multiple I should say entries in my registry dictionary
here.
I'm always taking object instead of doing this.
I'm now going to look at the type of the argument and go find it in the registry.
So just like we had before.
Right.
So instead of the function that we want to execute.
If I was to write it like this would be registry DOT gets amused.
I'm going to use get and I'm going to look for the type of thing in the registry.
So if I pass in let's say an integer when I call this H2 implies right by pass an integer it's going
to get type of the integers in and it's good to find it and it's going to use this lambda expression
over here.
So now let me go ahead and do that.
But if I don't find it what do I want to do.
Well I want to look up the object right.
That's my default.
Now of course what do I get out of the registry.
I get the value associated with this key.
So I don't want to return the key if I can't find the key I want to return the function associated with
the key which I know exists.
So I can go and pull it out this way.
And now that I have the function I can apply it to the argument.
I can do this.
OK.
So let's go ahead and now really I don't even need this I can just return it directly.
So let's go ahead and see now what happens.
So I can go ahead and say Single this patch.
Now I still need to write this decorator because the one thing that this doesn't have right now.
Well first of all we need to run the decorator in order to create the registry but we also need that
default function that's associated with the object.
So Tim Elyse.
And our default will just be a return escape string a.
OK.
So we have that.
So now we can say HFM allies of a string.
One is less than 100.
Just as before.
OK.
Except what's happening here is that I didn't call it an arm.
So apologize let me fix that up.
OK.
I didn't call.
Remember I didn't make the function call.
I just got the function from the dictionary but I never actually called it which is what we typically
expect on decorators to do.
So I just fix that up.
Now that thing though if I can call it with an integer then it should look up the integer and the registry.
And indeed it does.
It formats it using the integer.
So we're getting closer to what we want.
The only problem though is that we're still having this problem where we have to halt code these extra
things in the registry.
We need to be able to get to a point where we're injecting those functions from outside.
Right.
We don't want this to be in our single dispatch function which is supposed to be a generic kind of you
know decorator.
This is not generic.
Right.
This is not generic at all.
What's not generic.
Well the keys are not generic.
Right.
Intan string a been hardcoded inside here and the functions are absolutely not generic.
They are specific to the problem and we're walking on right now which is this.
Tim Elize function.
So we can't take that approach.
We're going to have to do something else.
So let's copy paste and let's fix this up.
First thing is I'm going to remove this whole registry thing.
We don't want that in there.
The next thing that we need to do is we're going to keep this as is this is fine and we're going to
return it I'm going to change the name of in which to say OK this is the decorator.
OK.
This is our decorated function if you want to call it that you can also call it decorated.
If you want I just want to do that because we're not going to introduce another function in this single
dispatch function.
What we want is a function that allows us to add objects and entries into the registry dictionary.
We need to be able to add a key and a function to the dictionary.
So let's say that we were writing that as a function inside single dispatch.
I'm going to call this function registers and the register function is going to take a type and it would
normally also take a function.
Right so we could write something like this.
Register type function.
I would just say registry Taieb underscore the quolls function.
Ok this is how we would add it.
But of course we can't do it this way because well we have no way of getting in there.
This function exists inside single dispatch and we still can't access it because we only have the decorated
function.
So we're going to do something else that's a little kind of odd as well but we're going to write a decorator
inside our single dispatch.
So our single dispatch is a decorator they will return the decorated function.
But we're also creating another function in there that is itself a decorator and it's going to be a
parameterised decorator.
So we're going to do this.
We're going to say register type on the school.
So when we called the decorator this is going to be a parameterised decorator.
So this registered function is in fact a decorator factory just like we've seen with decorator functions.
And what are we going to do with that.
Well here we're going to need an in a function and that in a function remember is the one that takes
the function that's going to be decorated.
This is you know a parameterised decorator.
And what is it going to do.
It's going to assign it's to basically assign this function to the type in the registry because we are
inside single dispatch.
This registry is a non-local variable.
This is all the closure registers a closure is a closure we have access to registry no registry is a
free variable in that closure.
And so we're going to assign it to that type and I'm using the underscore because type is a keyword
in Python and we're going to assignats this.
OK.
So this is kind of what we're doing so far.
Now the one difference normally then is that you would have another function in there right and another
in a function that would then evaluate the function with an argument and then return the result.
Here I'm going to stop at that point with this image.
This one is going to repeat on the function.
So that's all the in a function does hinge in this kind of decorator pattern.
So this is going to be a decorated with a parameter.
It is going to return a function called dinner and that function is actually going to take therefore
as a parameter the function being decorated.
Right but all it's going to do.
It's going to use the fact that it has access to a registry to assign the function to the type in the
registry dictionary.
So let's go ahead and execute this.
And now let's see what we have.
And the the the problem.
So let's see what we have let's just say single dispatch and we're going to do it again.
H tim Elize ache and we're going to return.
Escape of string of pay.
OK so now we have our h tim Elis decorator.
What is off.
Oh I symbolized function.
What is our HDMI function.
It's this decorated function here.
OK so we can call it let's say with a string.
One is less than 100.
Well it's going to default to using the object.
Right.
So that's why we get the encoding because that's what our default is that remember this function h tim
Himalayans is assigned to object.
But if we call it let's say with just the number 100.
Well we just get a hundred back it didn't do any kind of formatting because yeah it's not 100 is not
in the registry.
So now we need to do is just call this register decorator somehow how we we don't have a handle to it.
Right we still don't know how to get to this register function.
So how are we going to do that.
Well it's actually really really simple.
We're going to add the register function the decorator factory essentially as an attribute of the decorated
function there we're returning.
So we're going to say decorated Dark's register Let's call the attribute register we could call it you
know whatever we want what it's called register and that is the register function.
So let's go ahead and see now I can still run this.
Let me change it to a string.
Just to show you with the awesome.
I think it's M-L escaping.
So there we go.
That works fine.
But now the thing is it's Tim Elvises What is this function decorated.
It has this register attributes that check and indeed it has the register attribute.
So now we have a handle to that register function with which we can call.
Right.
What is the register function.
It is a decorator.
So it is a decorator so we can say to them allies start the register.
Now of course it's a decorator that's parameterize it needs a type.
So I'm going to say OK here's the tight end and here's the function and decorating the function that's
going to get passed in here.
Right.
So what function of my decorating let's I'm going to call it aged him.
And that takes a.
It's going to do the usual thing with integers.
So let me go and grab this is.
Come on.
There we go.
And paste that right over here.
And that's what we're going to return.
And of course it's a part decorated.
So we use that decorator syntax.
So the register function is a decorator decorator factory to be precise because it gets called with
a parameter when he gets called of a parameter.
It returns that inner function which is the decorator's.
The decorator takes the function but it doesn't do anything other than just return the function back.
So it's not actually modifying the function which sometimes remember we do.
We kind of modifying the behavior and then we end up calling the thing here we're just returning h to
melt into itself.
OK.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So now we don't know what's inside the registry right.
We don't have access to that because it is a variable.
Inside that single dispatch inside this H.T. implies closure essentially it's bound to the closure of
age to Meline.
And it's also part of this closure game that gets created when we call that.
So H-2 mail in is still H.T. melt it because that's what we're returning.
OK.
So we can look at the page T.M. And that's just himself him.
It's not the inner function.
OK.
Because we just returned a phone we didn't return another in a function and no Remember when we have
a parameterised decorator we have two levels of nested poses here when we have one.
But we do have however we do know that that function has been added as the value corresponding to the
key and in the registry dictionary.
It's a knife we call right if we call him allies of 100 who indeed see that it ran the correct function
at ran.
H tim ELINT function.
And of course what's really interesting now with this pattern is that we're not inside you know we're
not modifying things inside here.
This is a very general pattern and I can register things with the team Eleazer right at any point in
my code.
I could even be in a different module and doing that.
So I want I can go ahead and register let's say something for a list.
OK.
And let's go ahead and grab the things for the list
actions.
GRAHAM Well I'm going to grab
edged email list and paste that right here.
So now we've just registered a list.
Now what does this decorator return remember the long form syntax is this is the function being decorated.
So h tim list equals page to mail eyes dart registered list.
So this is the decorator factory being called.
And then we apply it to him list we past fit the function that we actually want to decorate.
OK.
That's what we did here.
This was the this is the long form of decoration.
What is being written and when we call the decorator that was generated by the register or factory while
in it.
But what is in are actually written when we call enter right.
Register returns enter.
But then we called in with H to mail list.
What it did return it return H.T. mail list because it just returns the function itself.
That's why we're not modifying H.T. mail list.
It's there and it's it's you know it's not being modified but it is being injected into the dictionary
so we can do that.
This is the long form.
Now the advantage of returning the function that we have over here because technically we don't even
have to return the function right.
We could leave that blank but the only problem is if you do that then what is H.T. mail lists going
to be it's going to be none.
Because this function here when it's called returns nothing is going to return None.
And so the mail list will become none here because we're returning.
It is actually just returning the original function a nice side effect of this.
We can call it a side effect is that we can stack the decorator's.
We can also say hey you know what.
You can also handle h tim allies that register but to pull in the same way we don't have to have a separate
function full list and tuple.
So maybe here I wouldn't call it a Jamail list.
I'd call it a stimulus sequence because these are both sequence types and later on we'll see how we
might be able to use something else like abstract base types or base classes to have something a bit
more generic.
But the way we've written our decorator it wouldn't actually work.
And I'll I'll show you that in a few minutes.
But if we do it this way remember what's going to happen fast.
It's this is a function that's being called essentially with the argument.
Right.
A lot of the HDL sequence it returns HDL sequence.
And now this one takes over and it gets called with an argument of HTL sequence.
So what happens is that our dictionary our registry dictionary has both of these keys with the same
function but it has both of these keys so we can do that.
And now we can say to implies let's say a list 1 to 3 and it gets HCM him Eliza We can also implies
a tuple.
Now works to OK.
So now let's add a few things in here because this is kind of opaque right now.
I would like to be able to get an idea of what the registry looks like.
So all I'm going to do here it's very very simple.
I'm going to add another attribute called registry to the decorated function.
So I'm going to run through all this again.
So now I've created my age HTML either by using the single dispatch decorators.
And you'll notice how that works right now.
You'll notice that here what I'm going to do is I'm going to just print out the registry I have access
to the dictionary.
And fair enough.
I have one item in the dictionary a key of object and the function is the h tim allys function.
This one over here.
OK.
Now I can go ahead and register an integer.
And again this works quite well.
OK.
But I can look at him either the registry again and you'll notice that we have now a second item.
Right so calling this registered basically this h to melt in function.
When we'd stack them let's go ahead and run that.
And let's see now what the registry looks like.
So h implies dobbed registry.
And you can see that we have list which is using sequence and topple which is also using sequence so
this is working quite well now.
A few things I would not give access to users directly to the registry dictionary.
Who knows what they might do.
And we're better off not doing that.
Kate we're better off keeping it opaque.
So I would not put that in I just put that in when I wanted to debug something and I want to be able
to peek into that dictionary.
But that's typically not what you want to do.
However one thing that might be useful for people is to allow them to extract the function that's associated
with a key in the dictionary.
So here what I might want to do is to actually write another function here let's call it def let's call
it dispatch because I want to know what's the dispatch function.
If I give you this argument so what's the dispatch function going to take it's going to take a type
as an argument what should return it should return the function in the registry associated with that
type.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's go ahead and I'm going to take basically what I have over here.
OK.
Almost what I have over here.
I don't want to execute the function so I'm not going to do that.
I don't have to get that type of Oh there is no arg.
Given the type this is the type.
And then if I don't find it go ahead and find the function that's associated with the default.
OK.
And then I just have to return that.
So here we have this dispatch.
And of course the only way I can get access to it externally is to add it as an attribute to the decorated
closure.
So it's called dispatch and we're going to return dispatch.
OK.
So now I've got this let me recreate now my decorated HD implies function.
And you'll notice now that OK this for walks we're still sorry we don't have the registry anymore we
took that out.
But was what.
Here is what we do have we can call dispatch on let's say Kent and we can say hey what are you going
to use.
If I send you an int and it says well I'm going to use HD analyze which is what the default because
nothing's registered.
And so Larramie go ahead and register the Int.
And here is of calling registry and call dispatch for minutes and it tells us yep I'm going to use a
stimulant.
OK so that's the dispatch function.
So that's saying that single dispatch.
But of course there's still some issues with the implementation of calls.
So let's take a look at what some of those issues are.
And I mean it was it would work just fine.
You know I have to register tuple and list I have integer.
Now of course if I say you know I can I can run all these things.
Yeah there's no registry.
But now for example I could say HDMI implies a hundred.
We get that.
But if I say Animalize of trool I just get trow back.
But true is also a number right.
It's.
So how do we want to handle that.
And we may have other kind of integral numbers.
So the problem is that we're using this idea of looking up the type by saying type ok where is our single
dispatch over here.
Right.
We get the type of the argument and we look up the then the registry register based on the type but
sometimes you want to have things a little more generic or more general.
For example lists and topples off sequence types an integer and a boolean are integral number types.
So what do I mean by that.
Well from numbers we can import I'm going to start with very simple example we can import integral and
we'll discuss abstract base classes and those kinds of things later on when we get to the object or
that section.
But I just want to give you a flavor of why what we have so far isn't really satisfactory.
It does explain how to go about doing single dispatch but there's actually a little bit more work that
needs to happen because of what I'm going to show you now.
So I have a numbers.
So I can say is instance right.
We have this other method called Is instance the other function called Is instance the difference between
instance is that is instance recognize a subclasses as well.
So for example let me show you a very quick example let's say that I have a class person.
OK.
And I'm just going to pass on this one and then I'm going to create a class let's say a student that
inherits from passing kind of get I'm just going to pass.
So now let's say I create a student.
OK.
So I've just created a new student object and I can look at the type of p and it tells me it's a student.
Now I can ask.
I couldn't ask I can say you know if I type well type of student so obviously I can't say you know the
type of student of P is a person.
It's not the type is student.
However if a student is also a person through inheritance and type doesn't capture that cap type is
only going to tell me he's a student.
So if I try and let's say register this student type in my single dispatcher and I pass it a person
it's not going out or sorry for register person.
OK.
In my single dispatcher and I pass passed a argument that is a type student it is not going to recognize
that the person actually allows it to handle students and the dispatcher.
Right.
Because type is going to give me the specific type but we have another function called Is instance now
is instance works differently.
We use it this way we can say is p an instance of stupid.
And the answer is yes it is.
What about this instance the person.
And the answer is yes as well because a student is also a person through inheritance.
So that's what I mean by the difference between using type and is instance.
So now the problem becomes this one.
Let's try again.
Let's go ahead and start again with our single dispatch and I'll keep the same example of aged lies.
OK.
So we have that.
And now I may want to age two male eyes register.
Now I want to register a function but I want to register it for integral types.
OK.
I want to say hey you know four integral types.
I want you to go ahead and run this function.
Def h tim l integral numbers.
OK.
And it's going to take a parameter A.
And what is it going to do.
What it's going to do what you would we would have four ints.
So we'll do this.
OK.
So that's registered.
And if we look let's say at 10 we can say is instance ten commer integral
I type it correctly and the answer is true.
Ten is an integral number in fact.
So as I type.
So it's true.
So OK so this means that I've registered an integral and you know 10 is an integral number.
True is an integral number so if I call him Alais of let's say 10 then I should get that.
And I don't we get 10 we get 10 back.
It used the default.
You can see it converted to a string and then that the escape.
So what happens here is that it's because we're looking at type right.
We're using type of the argument.
So it's going to get more complicated to fix this up.
Let me show you another example of also where this fails if we want to try and be a little bit more
generic because we could certainly go about fixing this problem as we saw before we could just say.
Tim Elmis got registered and then we could stackless with h tim Elvira's dark register ball and maybe
any other integral number of types that we have you know made ones that we've created ourselves you
know and then would say def h t m l are integral numbers.
A Well actually I'm just going to take this and paste that right in quick so we could do that.
So now that's fixed the problem because now we can h tim allies an integer and we can h tim allies the
boolean and K this way.
So it gives us the name as well as the string representation as well as the hexadecimal of the numeric
value.
So we could do it this way but it's kind of you know a pity that we can't just use integral in there
and the same thing happens with let's say tuples and lists we would have to register a tuple and a list
so we'd have to do essentially what we did over here.
But there is something else in Python these abstract base classes.
So for example let's go ahead and from this collections that ABC will abstract base classes and we'll
cover those in detail later.
I just want to show you the same problem here.
We have a sequence abstract base class.
So for example we can try is instance of some lists 1 two three comma sequence and the answer is true.
Same thing if we use is instance of a toppled one two three let's say the answer is true as well.
So ideally what we would want to do here is to register.
So the sequence abstract base type and then go ahead and just do whatever we did when we were registering
our list and I'll topple right with this one and we'd register sequence so we can do that.
OK.
But the problem now is that our registry contains something of a sequence and the type of our let's
say a list 1 to 3.
Is that a sequence.
The answer is false.
It's not right.
It's not a sequence.
The the type 1 to 3 is not a sequence.
It is however if you think of it in terms of abstract base classes or in terms if you want to think
of it in terms of interfaces the list 1 to 3 is an instance of a sequence but the type is not sequence
the same difference that I showed you just now with porcelains.
So you know that's the problem that our decorator has.
It doesn't handle that well.
There are other issues as well that can happen but we need to fix that.
And that's not necessarily straightforward.
It can be quite a bit of complicated code in there.
And I'll show you why it gets more complicated in the next video because this is a good stopping point.
This is a pretty long video already and so we'll finish up our single dispatch generic function in the
next video.
So thank you for watching and I'll see you in a bit.